.. _cn0540:

CN0540
================================================================================

Description
---------------------------------

The CN0540 plugin works with Scopy to control and monitor the CN0540 precision
measurement system. The interface is organized as a single scrollable page with
four collapsible sections. Checking or unchecking a control writes the new
value to hardware immediately and reads it back to confirm the change.

Use the **Refresh** button in the top bar to re-read all hardware values at
any time.

The CN0540 view is divided into four sections:

- **Power Control**
- **ADC Driver Settings**
- **Sensor Calibration**
- **Voltage Monitor**

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE
   Screenshot: The CN0540 plugin full interface showing all four collapsible
   sections expanded with values populated from a connected device

Power Control
---------------------------------

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE
   Screenshot: The Power Control section expanded, showing the SW_FF status
   button, Shutdown checkbox, and Constant Current checkbox with their status
   labels

The Power Control section manages the GPIO lines that control the device power
state and peripheral outputs.

- **SW_FF:** Reads the SW_FF fault flag GPIO and displays the current fault
  status. Click **Check Status** to query the hardware.
- **Shutdown:** Enables or disables device shutdown via an active-low GPIO.
  When the checkbox is checked the device is in normal operation; unchecking
  activates the shutdown line.
- **Constant Current:** Enables or disables the constant current source output
  (blue LED GPIO). Checking the box turns the output on.

ADC Driver Settings
---------------------------------

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE
   Screenshot: The ADC Driver Settings section showing the FDA Status and FDA
   Mode checkboxes with their current state labels

The ADC Driver Settings section controls the Fully-Differential Amplifier
(FDA) that drives the ADC input.

- **FDA Status:** Enables or disables the FDA amplifier. The underlying GPIO
  is active-low, so checking this box enables the FDA. The status label
  reflects the current hardware state.
- **FDA Mode:** Selects the FDA power mode. When checked the FDA operates in
  **FULL POWER** mode; when unchecked it operates in **LOW POWER** mode.

Sensor Calibration
---------------------------------

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE
   Screenshot: The Sensor Calibration section showing the Input Voltage, Shift
   Voltage, Sensor Voltage fields and the Calibrate button

The Sensor Calibration section provides voltage readback and an automated
calibration routine that adjusts the DAC shift voltage until the sensor output
reads near zero.

- **Input Voltage [mV]:** Displays the ADC input voltage in millivolts.
  The value is computed from the ``ad7768-1`` ``voltage0`` channel as
  ``raw × scale``. This field is read-only and updated on refresh.
- **Shift Voltage [mV]:** Sets the DAC shift voltage applied to the sensor
  input. Enter a value in millivolts and click **Write** to send it to the
  ``ltc2606`` ``voltage0`` channel. Click **Read** to refresh the displayed
  value from hardware. The displayed voltage accounts for the output buffer
  gain factor (DAC_BUF_GAIN = 1.22).
- **Sensor Voltage [mV]:** Displays the calculated sensor voltage in
  millivolts, derived from the ADC reading, DAC shift voltage, FDA gain
  (2.667), and the FDA output common mode (2500 mV). Click **Read** to
  recalculate from current hardware values.
- **Calibrate:** Runs an automated calibration loop (up to 20 iterations) that
  adjusts the DAC shift voltage until the ADC input reads near zero. The
  status label reports the calibration result when complete.

Voltage Monitor
---------------------------------

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE
   Screenshot: The Voltage Monitor section showing all six analog pin voltage
   readings (Vin+, Vgpio2, Vgpio3, Vcom, Vfda+, Vfda-)

The Voltage Monitor section displays six analog pin voltages read from an
auxiliary ADC (``xadc`` or ``ltc2308``). This section is only visible when a
supported auxiliary ADC device is detected. Voltages are refreshed
automatically every second.

- **Vin+:** Analog input voltage on the positive supply pin.
- **Vgpio2:** Voltage on the GPIO2 pin.
- **Vgpio3:** Voltage on the GPIO3 pin.
- **Vcom:** Common voltage reference level.
- **Vfda+:** FDA positive supply voltage.
- **Vfda-:** FDA negative supply voltage.
