.. _ad6676:

AD6676
================================================================================

The AD6676 plugin provides a direct interface for configuring the AD6676 wideband IF
receiver subsystem. All settings are written to hardware immediately when a value is
changed. If the hardware adjusts a value to the nearest supported setting, the updated
value is read back and displayed automatically. Use the **Refresh** button to re-read
all current hardware values at any time.

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE

ADC Settings
---------------------------------

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE

  - **adc_frequency:** ADC sampling frequency in MHz. Valid range is 2925–3200 MHz.
    Changing this value dynamically updates the valid range for the IF bandwidth setting.

Bandwidth Settings
---------------------------------

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE

  - **bandwidth:** IF bandwidth in MHz. The valid range is automatically bounded to
    0.5%–5% of the current ADC frequency; values outside this range are clamped by
    the hardware.
  - **bw_margin_low:** Lower bandwidth margin. Range 0–30.
  - **bw_margin_high:** Upper bandwidth margin. Range 0–30.
  - **bw_margin_if:** IF bandwidth margin. Range -30–30.

Receive Settings
---------------------------------

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE

  - **intermediate_frequency:** IF center frequency in MHz. Valid range is 70–450 MHz.
  - **sampling_frequency:** Read-only. Displays the resulting output data rate in MSPS
    as determined by the current ADC frequency and bandwidth configuration.
  - **hardwaregain:** Receiver attenuation in dB. Range -27–0 dB; more negative values
    apply greater attenuation.
  - **scale:** Input signal power in dBFS. Range 0–12.04 dBFS. Internally the driver
    stores this as a linear voltage ratio; the plugin displays the dBFS representation.

Shuffler Settings
---------------------------------

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE

  - **shuffler_control:** Selects the shuffler operating mode from the list of options
    supported by the hardware.
  - **shuffler_thresh:** Selects the shuffler threshold level from the list of options
    supported by the hardware.

Test Settings
---------------------------------

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE

  - **test_mode:** Selects the test pattern injected into the ADC data path. Choose from
    the available options (e.g., off, midscale short, positive full scale, negative full
    scale, alternating checkerboard, PN sequence, etc.) to verify data path integrity.
