.. _ad9375:

AD9375
================================================================================

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE
   Screenshot: The full AD9375 (ADRV9375) plugin tool view showing all sections including the DPD/CLGC/VSWR controls in the TX Chain

General Description
-------------------

The AD9375 is a superset of the AD9371 RF transceiver. It includes all the features of the
AD9371 and additionally supports Digital Pre-Distortion (DPD), Closed-Loop Gain Control (CLGC),
and Voltage Standing Wave Ratio (VSWR) detection on the transmit path.

When the plugin connects to an AD9375 device, it detects the hardware variant automatically by
checking for the ``adi,dpd-model-version`` debug attribute. If found, the tool is displayed
as **ADRV9375** instead of AD9371 in the Scopy device panel.

All features described in :ref:`ad9371` apply to the AD9375. This page documents only the
additional capabilities specific to the AD9375.

Additional TX Chain Features
-----------------------------

.. AN_IMAGE_WILL_BE_HERE
   Screenshot: The AD9375 TX Chain section highlighting the DPD, CLGC, and VSWR enable and tracking controls

The AD9375 extends the transmit chain with three additional control groups visible below the
standard TX attenuation and tracking controls.

DPD — Digital Pre-Distortion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Digital Pre-Distortion compensates for nonlinearity in the power amplifier by applying an
inverse distortion function to the transmit signal before it reaches the PA. This improves
transmit signal quality and reduces spectral regrowth.

- **DPD Enable:** Enables or disables the DPD actuator on the transmit path.
- **DPD Tracking Enable:** Enables continuous adaptation of the DPD model to track changes in
  PA behavior over time, temperature, and power level.

CLGC — Closed-Loop Gain Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Closed-Loop Gain Control maintains a target transmit gain at the antenna port by continuously
measuring the output power via the observation receiver and adjusting the TX attenuation.

- **CLGC Enable:** Enables or disables the CLGC loop on the transmit path.
- **CLGC Tracking Enable:** Enables continuous closed-loop tracking to maintain the desired
  output gain.
- **Desired TX1 Gain (mdB):** The target output gain for TX channel 1 in millidecibels
  (signed 16-bit value).
- **Desired TX2 Gain (mdB):** The target output gain for TX channel 2 in millidecibels
  (signed 16-bit value).

VSWR — Voltage Standing Wave Ratio
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VSWR detection monitors the antenna port for impedance mismatches by comparing the forward
and reflected signal components captured via the observation receiver.

- **VSWR Enable:** Enables or disables VSWR detection on the transmit path.
- **VSWR Tracking Enable:** Enables continuous monitoring of the antenna VSWR.
